---
title: cs430 9-28-2017
author: Stephen Slatky
geometry: margin=1in
numbersections: true
---
# Intro

TA: Alex duff

Provides fundamentals of 2d and 3d graphics
* Representations (lines, curves, polygons)
* Drawing, clipping, transformations, viewing
* Implementations of basic graphics systems. 

Assignments will build upon each other. 

You can use any lang. 

7 Programming assignments

Drops lowest assignment 

1 point off for every hour late

## Topics

* MATH 
* Primitive reps of simple figures. 
* Drawing algorithms
* Clipping algorithms 
* 2d/3d viewing
* Hidden surface removal. 
* color and lighting (wrap up) 


# Lecture

What we want to accomplish is a software service pipeline 

## Raster Image

Specify objects via geometry and then produce a 2D image

Fast

But vector allows for better scaling

## Pipeline

How something goes from privative to graphics on screen.  

Vertices -> vertex processor -> Clipper and primitive -> Rasterize -> Fragment Processor -> Pixels

## Math you will need

### Geometry 

#### Affine 

Scalers ,points, vectors, and their operators

#### Euclidean 
* affine lacks angles and distance 
* inner/dot product 
        * Length Distance normalization

#### Projector 

* How to display
* warping?

## Points

Points will be the base for everything we use

## Vectors

* Directed line segment 
* Magnitude

**Note**: No actual position in space

Can be defined by two points via subtraction 

 v = P - Q

This means: 
Vector from Q to P 

### Arrive at a new point

 v = P + Q

### Operations 

Every vector has an inverse

Can be multiplied by a scaler

Sum of two vectors is a vector

### Parametric form of lines

Given an initial point and a vector we can find any point. 
P(alpha) on the line alpha units from P_0 
in the direction of d.

P(alpha) = P_0 + alpha(d)

## Dot Product

u . v = N Sum k=1 u_kv_k = u_1v_1+ u_2v_2 + ... 

To compute the distance from the origin to a point. 

Euclidean distance from (x,y) to (0,0)
Sqrtx^2 + y^2) 

Or the n direction continue the formula. 

sqrt(p_1^2+ p_2^2 + ... + P_n^2) 


## Unit Vector

Has length 1. 
|v| 
Also called normalizing. 

### Helpful for angles 

    u . v = |u||v|cos(angle)

### Projection 

We can use this to project one vector onto another. 
we can project u onto v as u_1 as cos(angle) v where angle is the angle between u and v.

## Matrix Operations 

### Determinants

* single real number
* Computed recursively
        * for a fixed row i

det(A) = n Sum j= 1 A_i_j(-1)^(i+j)(M_i_J) 

### Cross product

Given two non-parallel vectors, a and b a X b calculates a third vector 
n that is orthogonal to both and b

Right hand rule - explains the direction. of the normal vector n = aXb 

axb is not bXa 

It is the thing with crossing one direction minus cross in other direction
This is a not in depth explainion

#### Example
Look at powerpint online

### Matrix Transpose and inverse

facts 
* (A^t)^t = A
* (A + B)^t = A^t
**Fill in rest from slide** 


# Second half of lecture

## Motivation 

User specifies the shape type

**In this lecture** We will talk about how to create an object with endpoints

## Scan-Conversion Algorithms

compute pixel coords for ideal line on 2D raster grid

## Drawing a line

given two end points

we can compute the slope with simple math

dealta(y)/delta(x) = m 

It will not form a perfect line with pixels.
We need to start making assumtions of which pixel to fill in.

If we want to draw a line we can: 

**Ineffecient way** 

* compute the next x position
* then compute the next y going back to the slope formula
        * may not be in a strict pixel location so we need to round to an interger location

**Ineffecient way** 

Less mutiplication Makes m = delta(y)/1
x_(i+1) = x_i + 1
y_(1+1) = y_i + m

### Digital Differential Analyzer (DDA) 

if |m| < 1
    * Deltax = 1 and delta(y) = m
    * Start left must point
    * End right most point
else 
    * Delta(y) = 1 and delta(x) = 1/m
    * start at bottom most point
    * end top most point

check for vertical line case 
m = inf

With this we still have floating point operations

### Bresenham's algorithm

No floating point operations

Based on implicit equation of a line:
    ð‘“(ð‘¥, ð‘¦) = ð‘Žð‘¥ + ð‘ð‘¦ + ð‘ = 0

Zoned out for this part. Look at powerpoint


ð· =   ð‘“ ð‘€ = 2ð‘‘ð‘¦ð‘ð‘¥ âˆ’ 2ð‘‘ð‘¥ð‘ð‘¦ + (2ð‘‘ð‘¦ âˆ’ ð‘‘ð‘¥ + 2( ð‘‘ð‘¥ð‘Ÿð‘¦ âˆ’ ð‘‘ð‘¦ð‘Ÿx))


** 5 Diffderent cases **
1. Vertical line
2. 0 <= m <= 1
        * if q> r swap points
3. m > 1
4. -1 <= m < 0 
        * if q> r swap points
5. m < -1


#### Example

m < -1 
(Px,Py)
(Px + 1/2, Py-1)

# Assigiment details

* read in post script. (.ps) 
* Simulate writing to a frame buffer by creating XPM image
* Draw lines


** It will all build off of each other so make it modular when designing.** 

* All black and white. 
* Create data structes to hold points







# Glossary

**Orthogonal** - Perpendicular
