# Atoms

Everything in lisp is an object. 

## NULL Class

Empty list is nil because nil is an empty list. 

The symbol nil is a special case, because it's the only member of the system class null. Only nil and its alternate representation, the empty list, represents logical falsity

Every other object is truthy.
Meaning if it is not an empty list it is truthy.

# Quoting 

A single quote prepended in a string or object means quoting.; this is just called quoting, and tells Lisp not to evaluate the quoted form. 

You can think of this as switching an expression from code to data.

## Example 

'()

'(this is a list of symbols)

(quote (this is another list of symbols))

'another-quoted-symbol


# List examples 
* (+ 10 20 (* 30 2))*
90

* (princ "Hello, from Lisp!")
Hello, from Lisp!
"Hello, from Lisp!"

* (loop for item in '(this list will get printed in titlecase) do (format t "~@(~A~) " item))
This List Will Get Printed In Titlecase
NIL

# Expression 

Every thing is a S-Expression. (Lamda Calculus)

so in Lisp, even a destructive, in-place operation is represented as an S-Expression. Destructive, in-place operations are by convention named with a prepended “N”, to make it obvious that they have side-effects:

;; first lets define a couple variables
* (defvar *test-list-a* (list 1 2 3))
* (defvar *test-list-b* (list 'd 'e 'f))
;; append returns a new list from its arguments
* (append *test-list-a* *test-list-b*)
=> (1 2 3 D E F)
;; you can see that the original lists haven't changed
* *test-list-a*
=> (1 2 3)
* *test-list-b*
=> (D E F)
;; but now lets do a destructive operation, NCONC (ie, in-place list concatenation)
* (nconc *test-list-a* *test-list-b*)
=> (1 2 3 D E F)
;; the variable's binding and assignment haven't changed, but the last cons-cell
;; now points to *test-list-b* instead of terminating at NIL
* *test-list-a*
=> (1 2 3 D E F)

## How to write expressions. 
### Lisp is very simpliler to racker 

;; this is a typical anonymous function call; the last form in its body is (+ x x)
;; so the function call returns (+ 2 2) => 4
* ((lambda (x) (+ x x)) 2)
=> 4
;; in this function, the return result of (+ x x) is not assigned so it is essentially
;; lost; the function body moves on to the next form, (* x x), which is the last form
;; of this function body. So the function call only returns (* 10 10) => 100
* ((lambda (x) (+ x x) (* x x)) 10)
=> 100
;; in this function, we capture the return values of both (+ x x) and (* x x), as the
;; lexical variables SUM and PRODUCT; using VALUES, we can return multiple values from
;; a form instead of just one
* ((lambda (x) (let ((sum (+ x x)) (product (* x x))) (values sum product))) 10)
=> 20 100
;; but calling VALUES without anything gives us... an expression with no return result!
* (values)
=> ; No value* 


# Cons 

Cons will always add to an empty list. If you try to create a list with nil then it will add nil because you are doing (cons 1 (cons nil nil) 
This gives you '(1, nil)

* (list)
=> NIL
* (list 'a)
=> (A)
* (list 'a nil)
=> (A NIL)
* (cons 'a nil)
=> (A)

## Dot notation
You can also use dot notion for cons. 

;; this:
'(a . b)
;; is the same as this:
(cons 'a 'b)

# Car and Cdr

This work just like they would in sceme.

> (car '(1 2 3))
=> 1
> (cdr '(1 2 3))
=> (2 3)

# Symbols and Namespaces

 Common Lisp is also both dynamically and lexically scoped

 Variables and functions do not share a namespace. So you can use the same name to represent both and it will work. *BUT DO NOT DO THIS* It is stupid.

 


